If you want your videos to perform
better, you have to learn how to craft a
winning hook. Now, I've studied
literally thousands of videos. And it
turns out when it comes to hooks, most
people struggle with the same four
things. And the good news is these are
all very fixable if you know what to
look for. So, in this video, I'm going
to break all four of those things down.
The core mistakes you're making, and the
exact tactics for how you can fix them
immediately. By the way, I know this
works because content is all I do all
day long. I have a million followers.
I've done billions of views. And I've
grown two separate personal brands in
two different spaces. So, if you use
this video as a checklist when you're
making hooks, I guarantee you will get
more views and your videos will be
impossible to skip. All right, the first
hook mistake is a big one. It's called
single subject, single question. It's
actually very simple. In order for a
hook to work, it only needs to do two
things. One, it needs to focus the
viewer's attention on a single topic.
And two, it has to plant the same
question in every viewer's head. If you
have 50,000 people watch a video, the
goal is that after the hook, all 50,000
of them are aligned and curious about
the same thing. For example, if I
started a video like this, here are the
three ways I grew the most last year. Is
that a compelling hook? Well, first,
what do you think the subject of the
video is going to be based on that
sentence? Most people would say it's
going to be about the ways I grew, some
growth tips or lessons learned, but it's
a bit vague and unclear. Some might
think I meant mindset growth. Others
might think I meant business growth.
Even others might think I meant literal
muscle growth or even YouTube growth.
And see that is a huge problem in lack
of clarity because the way I wrote that
assumed you would know what type of
growth I meant. When you write hooks,
you cannot assume the viewer has any
embedded information before watching the
video. And that is a huge mistake I see
people make. If the set of yours is
fragmented in what their understanding
of the topic is, then a lot of them are
going to be really confused when the
next sentence you say doesn't connect to
the previous one. And that confusion is
really why viewers don't hook and they
churn. They don't churn because they
don't like you. They churn because the
story you start telling stops making
sense and they can't follow it. And so
the lesson is the way you write the
first couple sentences in the hook has
to be unmistakably clear and focused on
a single subject. Now, the other piece
of this is the question that pops in the
viewer's head after they hear your hook.
Cuz we all know hooks are supposed to
create curiosity, right? Well, the best
hooks plants the same question in every
viewer's mind. So, if we go back to the
original example, here are the three
ways I grew the most last year. What
question pops in your mind after hearing
that? Well, some might say, what are the
three ways? I'm ready to hear them.
Others might say, grew how? What exactly
are you talking about when you say
growth? And even others might say, who
is this guy? Why should I care how he
grew? Is that going to relate or help me
at all? That's three different questions
popping up in different viewers' minds,
which means there are three different
curiosity paths that viewers are going
down. And again, twothirds of them are
going to be confused when the next
sentence doesn't connect. This lack of
clarity in the subject and the curiosity
is why your hooks are not hooking. Okay,
so now I'm going to tell you how to
solve for this. Imagine I wrote that
example hook like this. These are the
three best methods for business owners
to grow faster on YouTube. Now, the
subject is unmistakably clear. the
methods for how business owners are
going to grow on YouTube. And there's
only one main question that should be in
everyone's mind when they hear that.
What are the methods? I'm ready to hear
them. Tell me. See, by adding that
clarity, we've narrowed the focus onto a
single subject and a single question,
which gets everybody on the same page
for when we continue to tell the story
from here. So, when I start the next
sentence, everybody is following along.
And I know this seems pretty basic, but
like I said, this is the number one
problem that the most people struggle
with in all the videos that I've
reviewed. people just are not clear
enough in the way they frame their
hooks. So, what are the specific tactics
that you should use as a checklist when
you're writing your hooks to make sure
you're achieving this single subject,
single question framework? For one, read
the hook back after you write it and ask
yourself this. Is it possible for
someone to misunderstand the subject
that I'm focused on? And once you're
good with that, ask yourself, what
question should pop in the viewer's mind
based on hearing this sentence? The
question should be something shock
inducing that makes the viewer lean in.
something like, "How is this possible?
Is this real? Can you tell me more? I
can't believe that. Is it true?" If you
can't immediately identify what single
question a viewer should have in their
mind, then you need to rewrite the hook
and go again. Now, one cheat code for
accomplishing both of these things, the
subject and question at the same time,
is to just use a question hook.
Literally ask the question in the hook
that you want to plant in their mind.
So, you might say something like, "How
can a business owner grow on YouTube
without spending 40 hours per week?"
This achieves both the subject and
question clarity at the same time. Now,
the other way, if you don't want to ask
the question literally, is to just study
what the pros in your niche have already
been successful with. Cuz here's the
dirty little secret about social media.
All the big people are copying everybody
else, and all the small people are
copying all the big people. They look at
what works, they extract out the
pattern, and then they remix it to make
it work for their topic. And you can poo
poo that all you want, but this is what
all the top people are doing. So, if you
want a faster way to figure out what
hook structures have already worked in
your niche, so you don't have to worry
about misaligning on the subject in
question, just use sandcastles.ai.
That's literally why I built it. You can
build a list of all the creators in your
niche, look at all their top performing
videos and the hooks for those videos,
save those hooks as templates into the
vault, and then reuse those templates
when you're writing new scripts. It
couldn't be easier. Either way, whether
you use sand castles or not, you got to
get to a single subject, single question
clarity in your hook or it's not going
to hook. All right, hook mistake number
two is the three hook misalignment. And
you may have heard this before cuz I
kind of pioneered it, but there's three
types of hooks. The visual hook is what
is shown on the screen. The spoken hook
is what is said verbally by the creator,
and the text hook is the text that's
written on top of the visuals. If those
three hook components are not perfectly
aligned, the viewer is going to get
confused and churn. For example, if I
say, "There are three methods for
brushing your teeth that will prevent
cavities." But then I show you a visual
of somebody eating candy. And then the
text reads, "Gum health secrets
revealed." Those three things seem like
they're similar, but they're actually a
little misaligned. One of them suggests
brushing teeth, one of them suggests
eating candy, and one of them suggests
gum health. Now, most viewers could
probably figure out how those three
things go together if given enough time.
But the problem is, as they're thinking
through it, they're missing what you're
saying. So, they're getting confused.
Misalignment confuses the viewer because
it makes them freeze, miss things, and
then not know where the story has gone.
So, above all else, you have to audit
these three pieces in your hook and make
sure they're aligned. And the tactical
thing is just ask yourself this. Do all
three of my hook components mean the
same thing? If not, fix that
immediately. Also, if you're not using
text hooks, like you're not putting
title text in addition to the caption in
the first couple seconds, you really
should be because it's way harder to get
someone to understand what you mean with
just two elements than it is with all
three. So that is a surface area you
must be using. Okay, let me just quickly
show you an example of good and bad hook
alignment. Watch the hook for this first
video that I made a few weeks ago. This
is the future of home design. Now if we
analyze this for the first sentence, my
spoken hook was this is the future of
home design. My visual hook was a home
being designed and my text hook was
future of home design. See how those are
literally perfectly aligned. Let's go to
the second sentence. It's called Zuru.
My spoken hook was it's called Zuru. My
visual hook was literally a visual that
said the word Zuru. And in this case, I
didn't have a text hook because I didn't
extend it to the second sentence. Let's
go to the third sentence. And their AI
software makes building your dream house
feel like you're playing a video game.
My spoken hook was and their AI software
makes building your dream house feel
like you're playing a video game. My
visual hook was videos of someone
designing a house that looked like they
were playing a video game. And in this
case, I also didn't have a text hook cuz
it didn't extend to the third sentence.
You see how that video has perfect
alignment across the three pieces. And
because of that, you are perfectly clear
on the subject, some futuristic home
design software, and you're perfectly
clear on the question that should pop in
your mind. How does it work? That video
got 2 million views. Certified banger,
and it all works because the hook was
perfectly aligned. Now, here's an
example of bad hook alignment. And I'll
just do a one sentence hook this time.
Check this out. This company is sending
shipping containers into space. My
spoken hook was, "This company is
sending shipping containers into space."
My visual hook was a compilation of moon
bases being built and some rockets. And
my text hook was space cannons are so
insane. Without playing it any further,
can you assess what the subject of the
video is going to be? Well, I said
shipping containers. I showed
spaceships. And I said space cannons.
So, it's kind of not clear where I'm
going next. And then for the question
that should pop in your mind, it could
be a number of things. What are space
cannons? What does this have to do with
space at all? Is this a real thing or
some sci-fi thing? because it's not
clear, the questions aren't clear, and
you can see it's just not as crystal
clear as the first one. It's still a
cool idea, but because the hook
alignment was off, the clarity was off,
and the hook did not retain. This small
thing is the difference between 50,000
views and 5 million views. All right,
hook mistake number three is that your
visuals in the visual hook are not
unique enough. They're just not popping
off the page. Now, this doesn't mean you
need more chaotic motion that makes no
sense. What you need is visuals that
contrast against what people typically
see. If you look at your videos amongst
a sea of others in your category, do you
have enough visual differentiation to
separate yours in the first 2 seconds?
Because before a viewer can try to
understand your video, they have to lift
up their thumb and let it play in the
first place. So getting these first
couple seconds of visuals right is super
critical. I call these scroll stopping
visuals. Now, there are four main ways
that you can upgrade your visuals to
create this scroll stop effect. Number
one is to use an attractive or
unique-looking person. Number two is to
use a recognizable person or subject.
Maybe it's a celebrity, a brand logo
people recognize, something where you
can build relevance quickly. Number
three is to use atypical visuals that
contrast against what you typically see
in your category. And number four is to
use an atypical visual format or layout.
The truth is, people need some kind of
visual eye candy to stun them into
initially giving your video a chance.
It's crazy to say, but in 2026, people
are going to be watching hundreds, if
not thousands of videos per session, per
day. And so, their brain is just tuned
to filter out the normal stuff they
always see. So, you need to figure out
how to cut through visually. Now, one
thing you can do is to improve your set
or in world shots. These would be a-roll
adjustments, the footage where the
creator, you talking to the camera. You
could use a real set, a studio, or a
green screen, but you need some visuals
that are intentionally different from
what they typically see on the feed.
Using static photos or photo
compilations on the green screen effect
is probably the lowest lift way to
create some sort of visual
differentiation. Option two is that you
could change your B-roll selection
either by using popular clips, popular
movies, popular TV shows, or some
footage that you can find that is
highquality and different from your
category. Option three is that you could
use AI to generate visuals. With Nano
Banana Pro and the newest Veo models, AI
tools have gotten to the point where you
can create pretty solid, compelling
looking visuals that don't clock as AI
to the average viewer. Now, if you're
hot and charismatic, you may not need to
do any of this. You can just shoot it
with just you and let that fly and it'll
probably work. But if you don't want to
rely solely on that, you need to use one
of these visual stun gun techniques to
have your visuals pop off the page to
the average viewer. The reality is the
content world now has a minimum viable
visual requirement. And if your visuals
do not cut through above that level,
people will not stop and give them a
chance. So, here's my tactical advice.
When you're scrolling, because we all do
it, make it a point to like and save any
video where the visuals make you stop
and lift your thumb off the scroll, even
if it's not in your niche. Make a habit
to build a collection or folder of these
visual stuns that you can use as a
reference that you might use later.
Here's a few rapidfire examples for a
couple people I've seen in the last
couple weeks that felt like they
pioneered a little bit of a new look on
the visual hook on an old style. The
first one is Jamie Ganon aka Tech Bimbo
is what she goes by. In this shot, which
I really like at the beginning, she
frames herself in the bottom half and
uses white walls and ceilings above that
negative space as a canvas to show
interesting visuals. This is a very
unique way to use negative space that I
haven't seen very often. Here's a
similar example from Mark at Open
Residency. He has some of the best
podcast clips out there. They're doing
the same thing. They have the podcast
set and they're using that negative
space above as a canvas for visuals.
Now, I'm sure the arb on this is going
to close after people see this video,
but right now that is a sneaky great way
to add visual differentiation in the
hook on the feed. All right, here's
another example from this guy Sam John
Creates where he uses the top and bottom
black frames slowly closing to create
anticipation. your eye goes to it and
you don't want to scroll away because
you want to see what happens when it
fully gets closed. That's a really great
visual hack that I think he came up
with. Here's another one from me. This
didn't really work very well, but I
tried to do this like Tony Stark Iron
Man overlay on my glasses and then take
the glasses off in 1 second and have
that overlay go away. Just trying to add
some visual eye candy to get people to
stop. I don't think it was executed
perfectly, but that was an attempt from
me. Here's a pretty basic one, but I
think it works really well. this green
screen effect where this guy in the
corner is doing the typical green
screen, but he added this white outline,
this thick white stroke around him. And
for whatever reason, my eye went to that
and I didn't scroll away cuz it looked
different. Now, these are just a few
random ones. I have dozens and dozens of
these saved cuz I build this habit of
trying to save and favorite any videos
that pop my eye visually. The point is,
there are lots of ways to make your hook
visuals pop in the first couple seconds.
But regardless of which you choose, you
have to make them pop or you will lose.
Again, the easiest way to solve for
this, like most of these
recommendations, is just to search for
the top creators in your niche and watch
a couple hundred of their videos
collectively as a cohort. Try to train
your eye to figure out what are the
buckets visually that they're using that
are working for their best performing
videos and then replicate that as a
beginner. You could do this process on
sand castles looking at all of them in a
cohort or just scroll individually on
Instagram. It's more noise on Instagram,
but you could do that, too. The more
options your brain can ingest, the
easier it'll be to build a visual
database in your own head where you'll
start pattern matching a lot more
quickly. All right, so far we've talked
about three huge hook mistakes. The
first one is making sure the words
you're using in your spoken hook are
super clear so that they dial in on a
single subject and a single question in
the viewer's mind. The second one is
making sure that the spoken hook, text
hook, and visual hook, those three
components, are perfectly aligned. And
the third one was walking through a
bunch of ways to use your visual hook to
stun the viewer and pop off the feed so
you add some visual differentiation that
makes them lift their thumb. Now, the
last hook mistake number four is all
about the data. And I've kind of alluded
to this a little bit already. The goal
for any business owner when you're
making content is to derisk your reps.
It's going to take a lot of volume to
win in content either way. But if you
can get your hook hit rate from 1 in 20
down to 1 in5, it will completely change
the effectiveness of that process for
lead genen. Now, the way to increase
that hit rate is to derisk your effort.
And by drisk, I mean having a higher
probability chance of your content
working. The way you increase that
probability is to study what's already
worked. If you're trying to come up with
new hooks from scratch every single rep,
you are playing the content game on hard
mode. you're risking the rest of that
effort on the video on your guess for
what maybe could work on that hook. You
just shouldn't play the game this way.
The best predictor of future success for
hooks on your channel is to study the
other hooks that have already won on
your channel. So, first before you do
anything else, before you look at any
other creators, I would go to
Sandcastles, go to the videos tab, go to
the channels filter, pull up your
channel, sort by views or outlier score,
and study your top performing videos and
the hooks that you used. Now, most
people would write these down on a note
or some Excel or Google sheet. But in
sand castles, you can just click save to
vault and we will build a ready for you
template on any hook in one click. Now,
if you want, you can then export those
templates. We just added this feature
that exports button. Export those to
Google Sheets. You could use in Claude
or Chat or you could use them directly
in our script writing experience. But
either way, the fastest path to get
winning hooks is to use the previous
hooks that you've already won with and
turn them into templates and then adjust
and remix for your new video. If you
want to derisk your effort, you have to
be using winners. It is an absolute
must. Imagine I handed you a paid ad
that had worked in the past and I was
like, I need you to get me more sales.
Are you not going to run that paid ad
until it's out of juice? No. You're
going to run it to the ground. That's
exactly what using your hook winners
that have already worked would be. All
right. All right. Now, if you don't have
any hook winners yourself, you're a
beginner or you haven't cracked the
content for yourself, what you then want
to do is look at other creators in your
niche, ideally that are executing with
the same visual format as you. You want
to hold as many variables constant
between them and you, and look for
people that are small to midsize. You
don't want to look at the biggest people
in your space for inspiration because
their personal brands are so big that a
lot of their success is based on their
familiarity, not necessarily their
execution. If you find a small or
medium-sized creator that has a
breakout, it's because the hook
structure or the topic was actually
validated. And again, you can use Sand
Castles to build out these lists of the
small or medium creators and look at all
of their stuff in aggregate or you can
just scroll one-on-one in the apps. But
I'm telling you, this is why I built
Sand Castle. I'm trying to lay the rails
for business owners that don't actually
want to spend that much time making
content to speed up their datadriven
efficiency in the content process. But
once you build the cohort of the small
to medium-sized creators in your niche,
run the same process. Go in sand
castles, go to the videos tab, filter by
that watch list so you can see the full
cohort, sort by views or outlier score,
and just look and watch one by one by
one and start to mine for the hook
templates. You can click and save those
into the vault as reusable templates, or
you can export those and use them
however you want. But you have to be
studying proven data if you want to
speed this process up. What I just
described is typically as far as you
need to go because by doing that,
looking at your own winners and looking
at the category winners, you'll find
five to 10 hook formats that just
perform well over and over. You don't
really need to do anything else. Don't
make this process harder than it has to
be. The pros do not reinvent the wheel.
They just recycle the stuff that's
working. All right. Now, before I end
this video, I want to share one more
thing that I think will be super
helpful, and that is my full hookw
writing process. I use this exact mental
checklist when I'm writing a new hook to
make sure I hit on all the pieces that I
just mentioned. And if you're a business
owner, this is the real sauce. I've got
a free community specifically only for
business owners where I share a bunch of
stuff like this checklist systems. We
have 65 free trainings. It's called Wavy
World. Again, completely free. We got an
invite link below if you want to join.
All right, here's the hookw writing
checklist. Step one is to first pick the
subject that you want the video to focus
on. Get really crystal clear on this so
you can build the hook around it. Step
two, decide what question you want to
pop in the viewer's head when they hear
your hook. This should ideally be the
most interesting possible question that
would lead perfectly to the next part of
your script. Typically, you want it to
be an emotion inducing or shockdriven
question. Step three is to have a sense
for what the visual would be for the
visual hook. You don't have to make it
yet, but just have a sense, a clear
vision of what that could be. This is
kind of like YouTubers making the title
and thumbnail at the beginning before
making the video. If you just write the
title and then you get to the end with
no sense for the thumbnail, you might
get trapped in an inability to execute
visually. So, you want to think at this
point, what could the visual hook be?
Just have a rough sense for that. Step
four is to actually write the hook. And
this is going to be the spoken hook that
you say. It can be one to three
sentences. I typically like to make my
hooks two or three sentences cuz I like
saying things twice in two different
ways to make sure the clarity is clear.
But if you can get it done in one
sentence, perfect. If you need
additional words or sentences to make
sure the subject and question are clear,
use them. Right? in a fifth grade
vocabulary level. Write in active voice
and be very punchy with the way you
deliver. No extra words, no extra
phrases that don't need to be there. If
you're struggling with this, again, I
sound like a broken record. We have a
script writer in Sandcastle that'll just
write it for you. It'll take the
templates and write them for you
perfectly succinct. So, you could use
that if you want or use chat or claude.
Step five, after writing the hook, you
haven't made the visuals yet, but you've
just written the hook, run the one
subject, one question gut check and ask
yourself these two questions. Does this
hook unmistakably reference one subject?
And two, does this hook unmistakably pop
one single question in the viewer's
mind? If those two things are not a
resounding yes, go back to step four and
rewrite it again. Step six is to
actually make the visual hook in the
edit, add the text hook on top of the
visual, and then align it with the
spoken hook. You should now have all
three pieces executed in your editor.
You want to do your absolute best to
make that scroll stopping visual effect.
If you're not great with visuals, you're
not great editor, it's going to take
time to get better at this, but you want
to kind of gut check this against the
field. Who else in your niche is doing
this well and try to gauge your scroll
stop ability compared to theirs. Step
seven, last step. This is your last
chance audit. Once you have the whole
thing there, I want you to watch the
hook again on your video. Answer these
four questions. Am I clear on what the
subject is supposed to be? Am I clear on
what the question that's supposed to pop
is? Are all three pieces perfectly
aligned? Am I interested and curious
enough to want to go to the second
sentence? These are the fundamentals. If
you nail these and you run that one
through seven process, I guarantee your
hooks will be better and you'll get more
views. All right, guys. That is all I've
got for this video. As a recap, we
covered the four biggest hook mistakes
that I see over and over people struggle
with. If you watch this video, I
guarantee your hooks will get better.
Now, if you want to go even deeper on
hooks, I've got two things for you. The
first, I filmed a 2-hour in-depth master
class live. We've got 40 pages of notes.
We have a hook database with over 400
different templates and I went through a
bunch of examples live in multiple
niches. If you want to watch that hook
master class, I've got a link below. The
second thing is this video deep dive
that I made on hooks is one of the most
popular videos on hooks on all of
YouTube. It has over 600,000 views.
People loved it and there's so many
comments about the transformation people
had. So, I recommend if you like the
hook's topic, you feel like you need
improvement and this video was helpful
but didn't fully close the loop, make
sure to click this video and watch this
one next cuz it will work really well as
a compliment. As always guys, I
appreciate you. I'm trying my best to
make unique stuff that you just don't
hear everywhere else. So, if you're a
business owner and you're trying to get
better at content, make sure to
subscribe and we will see you on the
next one. Peace.